
=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Importer::Zim::Cookbook - Cooking imports à la Invader Zim

=head1 RECIPES

All these recipes use L<zim>, the abbreviation for L<Importer::Zim>.
If you prefer non-pragma-looking names, suit yourself.

=head2 Importing one subroutine

    use zim 'Scalar::Util' => 'blessed';

=head2 Importing a few subroutines

    use zim 'List::Util' => qw(any all none notall);

=head2 Importing a subroutine with a new name

    use zim 'List::Util' => 'pairs' => { -as => 'kv' };

=head2 Importing all subroutines under a tag

    use zim 'Mango::BSON' => ':bson';

Imports 18 subs (as of Mango 1.29), like C<bson_bin>,
C<bson_code>, etc.

=head2 Importing all subroutines exported by default

    use zim 'Carp';

Imports C<confess>, C<croak> and C<carp>.

=head2 Importing a few subroutines (again)

Now with an array ref:

    use zim 'List::Util' => [qw(any all none notall)];

Notice that array refs are supposed to contain
only subroutine names. If you put a C<:tag> in there,
it will likely fail, just like

    use zim 'Mango::BSON' => [':bson'];

fails with

    ":bson" is not exported by "Mango::BSON" at ...

=head2 Importing subroutines with prefixed names

    use zim 'Mango::BSON' => ':bson' => { -prefix => 'mango_' };

Imports subs with names like C<mango_bson_bin>, C<mango_bson_code>,
etc.

=head2 Checking for minimum version

    use zim 'List::Util' => { -version => '1.33' } => qw(any all none notall);

=head2 Importing a subroutine not declared as exported

Because you know what you're doing.

    use zim 'charnames' => { -strict => 0 } => 'vianame';

    use zim 'Sub::Inject' => { -strict => 0 } => 'sub_inject';

    use zim 'String::Truncate' => { -strict => 0 } => 'elide';

There may be good reasons to do that, including

=over 4

=item *

to create a shortcut to a stable subroutine in other package

=item *

to bypass the lack of C<@EXPORT_OK> or C<@EXPORT>
due to the use of exporters which don't set them
(like L<Sub::Exporter>).

=back

=head2 Importing subroutines with crafted names

    use zim 'Mango::BSON' => ':bson' => {
        -map => sub { s/^(bson_)/\U$1/; $_ }
    };

This time, subs will be imported with names like
C<BSON_bin>, C<BSON_code>, etc.

=head2 Cherry-picking subroutines to import

All different specifications of symbols to import mentioned above
(subroutine names, tags, array refs) can be put together.

    use zim 'Fcntl' => qw(:flock :seek S_ISUID);

    use zim 'Mojo::Util' => [qw(b64_decode b64_encode)], 'trim';

=head2 Writing a module with functions to be imported

    package YourModule;
    our @EXPORT_OK = qw(munge frobnicate);

And the users of this module can say

    use zim 'YourModule' => qw(frobnicate);
    frobnicate($left, $right);

=head2 Writing a module with many functions to be imported

If there are too many symbols to be imported,
for example tens of constants, it is a good idea
to provide tags to name useful subsets of
the imported symbols.

    package YourModule;
    our @EXPORT_OK   = qw(BIT1 BIT2 BIT3 BIT4 MASK1 MASK2 MASK3);
    our %EXPORT_TAGS = (    #
        bit  => [qw(BIT1 BIT2 BIT3 BIT4)],
        mask => [qw(MASK1 MASK2 MASK3)]
    );

The users of such module can write

    use zim 'YourModule' => qw(:bit :mask);
    $mode = BIT1 | BIT3 | MASK1 | MASK3;

=head2 Writing a module with default exports

Default exports are defined at C<@EXPORT> package variables.
When exporters were used and imported symbols were not automatically
cleaned, default exports were not such a good idea.
(Read it: namespace pollution for free.)

One of the best uses for default exports is to hold
the list of symbols a user of your module is most likely
to want available.

This is the case of "encode" and "decode" subroutines in
modules like L<JSON>, L<JSON::XS>, etc.

    use zim 'JSON::XS';

imports C<encode_json> and C<decode_json>, which is probably
what you want while writing quick-and-dirty scripts.

=head2 From CamelCase to snake_case

    use zim 'Mojo::Util' => 'decamelize';
    use zim 'YAML' => [qw(LoadFile DumpFile)] => { -map => \&decamelize };

=cut
